
Web Services T9  Messenger

Goals

Familiarize  myself with:
•     Fundamental ideas of rich internet applications (RIA)
•     Silverlight - one of the current technologies  for client side web technologies
•     Dealing with a program  that has local application services and remote web (HTTP/HTTPS) based services.



Overview

During Part A, I published my own working server.
For  Part B, I created  a client  that connects  to  my server and Ajay’s server.
My client has the ability to switch servers either  through  the UI or a command  line parameter.
I implemented most of the functionality of the previous lab (T9 Texting) with changes to the application to split it
between  a client  side (Silverlight  app  running  in the  browser)  and  a server side piece using Windows Communication
Foundation (aka, Windows Communication Framework) web service on the server side. 

Requirements

I could toggle  between  predictive  and  non- predictive  mode. In non-predictive mode, the  client is independent of 
the  web service (it should work without  an internet connection). The  set  of legal words  comes from the file 
english-words.txt. 


Design

How will you split up your architecture between the client and server side? There are many options, most having to do with the nature  of the connection  between  the two sides. Two approaches  that come to mind are transferring each key stroke across the network; another  is to send complete digit sequences across. But  remember  that the display has to somehow be updated every time a button is pushed.  Here are the design constraints within  which you must  work.
The entire list of words never exist on  the client  side.
The mode toggle control  happens  completely  on the client side.

Observations
One of the most interesting challenges I faced is how to deal with the fact that Web Services, like any HTTP-based 
protocol,  is at its fundamental level stateless. I utilized WCF  Web Service for my server side.

Difficulties and Challenges 
a) Cross domain policy and client accessibility policy implementation 
b) Windows 8.1 update: It made some core changes to Silverlight files. I was unable to debug it as my Silverlight Developer Runtime got corrupted. Multiple tries to set it right did not work. I could not debug it. I could only run the code and see changes to it. 
c) Changing from wshttpbinding to basichttpbinding: Initially I did not pay attention to why my service was not being consumed by T9Client. I came to know later that Silverlight does not deal with wshttpbinding. I asked Ajay to change it as well in order to make sure that our services get consumed. He had made the same mistake as well. 
d) Use of System.DateTime.Now.Tick instead of System.Diagnostics.StopWatch in Silverlight client Application: Silverlight does not use System.Diagnostics library which we use for StopWatch class. So in order to manage non-predictive mode, I used Tick function to give me time elapsed between two clicks. 10,000 tick equal to one millisecond. For more than .5 second intervals, we appended the letter or we just changed the letter for the word. 


Helpful links

•     Silverlight Web Services
•     WCF  Sessions


